The President:
This week, I spent some time
talking with college students
about how we can make higher
education more affordable.
And one of the things I told
them was how proud I was that
they were making that
investment in themselves --
because in today's economy, the
best predictor of success is a
good education.
That's not just true for
our individual success;
it's also true for
America's success.
New jobs and new businesses will
take root wherever they can find
the most highly-educated,
highly-skilled workers.
And I want those workers
to be American workers.
I want those good-paying,
middle-class jobs to take
root right here.
So it should concern
everybody that right now --
all across America -- tens
of thousands of teachers are
getting laid off.
In Pennsylvania alone, there
are 9,000 fewer educators in our
schools today than
just a year ago.
In Ohio, the number
is close to 7,000.
And nationwide, over
the past three years,
school districts have lost
over 250,000 educators.
Think about what that
means for our country.
When there are fewer
teachers in our schools,
class sizes start climbing up.
Our students start
falling behind.
And our economy takes a hit.
The point is: teachers matter.
One study found that a good
teacher can increase the
lifetime income of a
classroom by over $250,000.
A great teacher can change
the course of a child's life.
So the last thing our country
needs is to have fewer teachers
in our schools.
Now, I know states are still
going through some tough times.
I realize that every Governor is
dealing with limited resources
and many face stark choices
when it comes to their budgets.
But that doesn't mean we should
just stand by and do nothing.
When states struggle, it's
up to Congress to step in
and help out.
In 2009 and in 2010, we provided
aid to states to keep hundreds
of thousands of teachers
in the classroom.
But we need to do more.
That's why a critical part of
the jobs bill that I sent to
Congress back in September was
to help states prevent even more
layoffs and rehire even
more teachers who had
lost their jobs.
Of course, months later,
we're still waiting on
Congress to act.
When it comes to this recovery,
we can't fully control
everything that happens in
other parts of the world.
But there are plenty of
things we can control.
There are plenty of steps
we can take, right now,
to strengthen our economy.
Putting teachers back in
our kids' classroom is one
of those steps.
There's no excuse for inaction.
You work hard.
Your leaders should, too.
Especially at this make-or-break
moment for the middle class.
I know this is an election year.
But some things are
bigger than an election.
Some things are
bigger than politics.
So I hope you'll join me in
telling Congress to do the right
thing; to get to work and to
help get our teachers back in
the classroom.
We can't afford to
wait any longer.
Thanks and have a great weekend.